## What is a cache, how to describe a cache

cache is somewhere we can store data.
We usually find data by it's ID, or key,
thus we need to store a key-value pair when we store data.
at last, we have the basic requirement of removing a specific key-value pair.

As a result, or cache should look like as follows:

```text
cache:
  - set(key, value)
  - get(key) -> value
  - delete(key)
```

according to our design, we get the abstract interface.

```go
type Cache interface {
	Get(key string) ([]byte, error)
	Set(key string, value []byte) error
	Del(key string) (bool, error)
}
```

We design our cache abstarct in `cache` folder.

## Implement the real internal structure: in memory

we find the structure of cache looks like hashmap,  
and the hashmap provides O(1) time complexity for all our operation: get/set/delete.  
Therefore, we decide to use hashmap to store our kv pairs.  
Notice that, our design is to **store** data in hashmap,  
and if there are some other considerations like performance, we can use some other data structure.  
But there're something we need to pay attention when we use hashmap,  
we don't expect our cache serve only one user at a time, it's not good enough for current world,   
so our cache should handle more than one requests **simutaneously**,
in another world, we need a **thread-safe** hashmap, so our choice is `sync.Map`.  

The core implementation is showed as bellow:

```go
type MemCache struct {
	sync.Map
}

func (mc *MemCache) Get(k string) ([]byte, error) {
	// sync.Map.Load(k)
}

func (mc *MemCache) Set(k string, v []byte) error {
	// sync.Map.LoadOrStore(k, v)
}

func (mc *MemCache) Del(k string) (bool, error) {
	// syc.Map.LoadAndDelete(k)
}
```

We implement our memory cache in `mem` folder.

## Implement the real internal structure: disk oriented

to **persist data to the disk**, most of the time the database is the best choice,  
because there are quiet a lot of different types of database which provide different features currently,
it's unnecessary to build a whole new one, and the internal structure is not really easy to understand.
In our case, we need **a key-value based database**, there are different options like LevelDB, RocksDB, Riak, Cassandra, DynamoDB, BoltDB, BadgerDB.
However, the critical feature for us is a tiny high performance single node storage engine. Thus the best option should be RocksDB, we don't need distributed feature, we don't have really huge data for a cache application, we hope it to be real-time, and we have a golang version RocksDB alternative which provide high performance, it's called BadgerDB, and of the most value is that this engine is written in golang, it's extremly easy to maintain, you can find everyone can run it with `go run main.go`, but with RocksDB, you don't know how to maintain them properly since they have so many dependencies which you need to install munually, adn disastrous C++ code.


The core implementation is showed as bellow:

```go
type Store struct {
	db *xxDB // for example, BadgerDB, or even mysql...
}

func (s *Store) Get(k string) ([]byte, error) {
    // db.Get(k)
}

func (s *Store) Set(k string, v []byte) error {
    // db.Set(k)
}

func (s *Store) Del(k string) (bool, error) {
    // db.Delete(k)
}
```

We implement our persisted cache in `store` folder.

## Implement the real internal structure: cloud persisted

If you understand all the steps above, I believe it's not difficult for you to bridge the interface to cloud platform. Therefore it's an extra task for you. If you need some assistance, feel free to email me.
